---
layout: post
title: I'm tired
---

I'm tired of being mediocre at everything and I want to change forever. Time to sprint like no other. I'm speaking in circles. What makes this time different? It's not. But do the same thing 50 times and concentrate on a different aspect each time, and you'll get a different result, so that famous YouTube video about improvement says. I hate reading about self-improvement. Yet, it's all I write about. Ironic. It's so simple. So tricky to get right. I'm getting desperate. Of course, I have all these resources I want to gobble up, which consuming, I strongly suspect, will increase both my sharpness and creativity. But, I'm rarely in the right headspace for understanding them. I need to increase that somehow.

My writing style is not pretty. It's quite fragmented. The vocabulary is simple. Context is nonexistent. I'm just trying to get my point across. I don't care how pretty it looks. Aesthetics is nice though. Maybe it's something I'll concentrate on later. On its own, it's pointless. I don't feel like concentrating on that now. It's not my main issue but it will come later. Looking better was something I severely underestimated. But it's not important yet.

Now, I feel like just focusing on energy efficiency. It feels the most important, like my life is slipping away without properly learning it. Not all the time will I feel optimal. I will need to plan on how to avoid feeling suboptimal. But also, how can I keep going as optimally as possible when I feel suboptimal? If I can remember anything from chess, both are equally important. I need to prepare to avoid bad positions and to keep being courageous when I'm in good positions. But also, I need to keep good positions from sliding into bad ones, a mirror of the previous one.

My first hello world post was an attempt at helping optimize some suboptimal times. A message from the past to motivate me into doing better. A strong piece of music making me feel like running against the wind. There has to be other mental tricks I am missing. Now that I think about it, I think it's just about going at a reduced mental pace, a more peaceful pace, but still going. Like when I am feeling like I'm dying when I'm running, all I do is simply slow down, but I force myself to run still, and to not walk. In chess, a lot of times, when you're defending, you cannot try fancy tricks like when you're attacking, and instead, need to goad the opponent into going for a fancy trick that doesn't work. I'm going to try that out, first by inducing myself into suboptimality, and then attempting to learn at a reduced pace in that headspace.

April 2027 4:21 PM PST
