---
layout: post
title: Annotations -- a new age
---

Ironically enough, I forgot about my initial "hello world" post and went back to using music. Music, despite its powerful effects of motivation, grows familiar, and in its familiarity, loses its effects. For a while, I had been stuck in more or less a new plateau.

In my new plateau, I of course did not remain entirely stagnant. My life stabilized and formed a stronger core. But unfortunately, I gained nothing in hard skills and just grew the soft ones. I've been working out and getting stronger. I can run a lot faster and for longer distances. I made new friends. I taught people English. I watched an illuminating video on Impact Flashes from SmarterEveryday, in which I was exposed to new physics and mechanical engineering jargon. I also bought ChessBase and because I had to install it on Windows, was reminded of Curius and discovered new bookmarks. From those bookmarks, I discovered Karpathy's new blog, in which he talked about how he took notes. He has a gigantic note filled with everything he finds interesting. He moves things to the top if he's likely to forget them and they're important. Otherwise, unused notes sink to the bottom, to be read for inspiration every few months or so.

And that, I guess, was the turning point. A stupid simple call to "take notes", and not only that but to "take notes and order them".

I've adapted Karpathy's strategy but for chess. I annotate all my games and my tactics puzzles now. By annotating, I can figure out what my bottleneck is. Why I took too long on a certain move. Why I was unfamiliar with a certain opening and what possibilities and threats I was sidetracked by. What tactic I missed. What move from my opponent surprised me. And when I leaf through chess books eventually, I'm going to find some way, or if there's not one available make the way myself, to convert all its pictures into PNGs so that I can annotate them easily. And I didn't realize this but I actually have a bigger obsession with language than I thought, and I wasn't progressing as much as I wanted to in Spanish or Russian because I wasn't writing anything down and because I didn't realize I had a passion for languages (because I'm so bad at them). So I started taking notes for them too. It's weird to take notes of Instagram reels but how else am I going to remember better? Annotating is simple and stupid. My English teacher in 6th grade already taught me how to. I forgot that existed though. I'm reminded of the fact that some people can overannotate and that they get made fun of because they don't get very good grades, but I don't care about looking stupid. I know that annotating works for me because my bottleneck is that I forget and I need data so I can figure out how I can improve at things. Writing blog posts summarizing what I did wrong with tactics is a starting point but not sustainable. Storing annotations is more so. It's less writing, and faster to comb through, and more accurate with the snapshot of my complete thoughts in the nonlinear form chess thinking is.

I can feel a new turning point coming. I don't care if I'm overconfident. It's the age of annotation and ordered notes. This is how I'm going to rock the world. If I keep on doing what I'm doing, I'll reach 2400 chess in no time. I'll learn algebraic signal processing, heap exploitation, learning with errors, music information retrieval, biochemistry, algebraic number theory, Kazakh, Chinese history, functional analysis, measure theory, the classics, Greek literature, metamathematics, topology, fuzzy logic and solve all the problems of the world and find new ones. I'm going to become as fit, as attractive, as smart, and as socially active as I possibly can and nothing's going to stop me.
