---
layout: post
title: I peaked in chess
---

I made it to 2400 blitz rating on chess.com after lots of hard work. My lifestyle had changed in a new direction for a few months. For instance, I did not have any of these habits months before, but I started going to the gym at least twice a week, taking creatine/Vitamin C every day, running around 2-4 times a week with multiple 10ks, and going out almost every week with friends. But even that was not enough. I had to work on my chess too. It not only took annotating my own games, but looking for my weaknesses in ChessBase (and this is actually quite incomplete since my entire 1. e4 Nc6 2. Nf3 repertoire needs more serious study from the black side and my entire "counter" against the King's Indian is pretty horrible), watching thechessnerd and Daniel Naroditsky videos on YouTube before bed, and continuing ChessTempo puzzles. I was one game away from 2400 multiple times, but in those runups, I had good positions but played too slowly. I finally got incredibly annoyed and relied on my intuition instead of evaluating everything carefully, and even though I got into worse positions, I was also able to get out of them aggressively and quickly and ultimately, that last small decision was what got me over the hump. I feel a sense of deja vu, as if I had reached previous milestones in the same manner, but I honestly have forgotten. I feel like I had done some things to improve but didn't actually see the improvement, but I felt it as I was getting into good positions every game but just losing on time, and then I just got pissed off and relied on my intuition to carry me to my new strength. There were also several factors foreshadowing my new peak in strength. First, I never reached 2000 on standard puzzles on ChessTempo until the day before. I also never had a 42 3 minute puzzle rush score until the same day. Achieving 2400 does not change my life, but rather gives me more confidence in pursuing the skills that matter even more to me. It also gives me a reference whenever I am plateauing at something else. I have an incredible backlog of things I want to learn, and I will relinquish my focus from chess except for studying it, as I have been incredibly lazy in that regard and want to fix that habit. When I mean studying, I mean solving puzzles, reading books, and thinking more deeply about my past games with ChessBase. I am proud of myself of coming so far. While chess ultimately does not matter in life, it proves to myself that through hard work, I am capable of overcoming my shortcomings in processing speed and intelligence by relying on my unconscious. It is a beautiful game, filled with beautiful and complicated concepts, that can preoccupy more years of my life than I can count and that I can never stop learning from. Despite the beauty of chess, there are other beautiful things captivating my mind that I will now turn my attention towards.